---
layout: post
date: 2017-08-04 00:00
title: 파이썬과 말해봐요 - (문자열) 문자의 위치 찾기 
---

{:.summary}
```python
>>> print("Hello"[0])
>>> print("Hello"[4])
>>> print("Hey, Bob!"[4])
>>> print("Hey, Bob!"[6-1])
```

It's pretty easy to figure out indexes when we can count by hand. Now let's try doing it programmatically (that is, using Python).

Try the first example. At your prompt, type the word 'print', then inside parentheses, the word "Hello" in quotes, and finally these “square brackets” with the number zero inside. Then hit Enter.

Since we're asking for the character in this string with an index of zero, Python returns the letter 'H'.

Now let's try the second example, asking Python for the character with an index of four. Did you get the letter 'o'? Let's see why.

If we start at the beginning of the string, the letter 'H' has an index of zero. Then index one is the letter 'e', indexes two and three are 'l'. And index four is the letter 'o'.

Okay, let's try some longer examples. Let's type the word 'print', then in quotes "Hey", comma, space, "Bob", exclamation point. Then right next to that, inside square brackets, type the number four and hit Enter.

Did Python return anything? Are you sure? Let's count by hand and see what the character at index four is. Remember to start with zero - that's the letter 'H'. Index one is the letter 'e', two is the letter 'y', three is the comma, and four is the space. Is that what Python returned?

Okay, one last example. We already know that we can enter an index number inside the square brackets to find its matching character in the string.

But we can also do math inside the square brackets. Here we're subtracting one from six, which is ... five. So what is the character at the fifth index in this string?

Go ahead and type this expression to find out.