---
layout: post
date: 2017-08-04 00:00
title: 파이썬과 말해봐요 - (변수) 연산자를 가지고 좀더 놀아볼까요?
---

{:.summary}
Math operations
```python
>>> donuts = 12 * 12
>>> fishes = 3
>>> fishes + donuts
```
String operations
```python
>>> color = "yellow"
>>> day = “Monday”
>>> color + day
>>> color * fishes
>>> color + day * fishes
```

We can also use variables to do some of the same things we do with numbers and strings.

Let's create a couple of variables and give them numeric values. We can use our donuts example from earlier, and also create one new variable. I'm going to give that new variable a value of three.

Now what happens if we add the two variables? Is the answer what you expect?

Go ahead and try some other math operations with these two variables. You can subtract, divide, multiply, even compare them.

And we can do some of the same things with variables that have string values.

Let's create two more variables - color equals yellow and day equals Monday.

The first thing we'll do is put them together with a plus sign. Do you remember what the plus sign does for strings? It concatenates them.

And what happens if we multiply a variable with a string value by a variable with a number value? 

Now let's look at this expression where we add and multiply. What do you think Python will return here? Let's type this at our prompt and find out.

Was that the answer you expected? Okay, let's break this down and see what happened. Our expression is color plus day times fishes. We know that color is yellow, day is Monday, and fishes is three.

So when we asked Python to calculate - or EVALUATE - this expression, what did it return? Let's take a look.

('yellowMondayMondayMonday')

You might have been expecting Python to concatenate color and day first, and then multiply those strings times three.

Do you remember when we talked about order of operations earlier? Maybe not? Okay, let's recap that then. "Order of operations" is a rule that determines which parts of an expression are calculated first. In most programming languages, multiplication is always done before adding or subtracting. So in this case, Python did the multiplication side of the operation first - so you got the word Monday three times - and then concatenated that with the word yellow.

But if you wanted the addition to be done first, there is a different way you could write this expression. You could put parentheses around "color plus day".

>>> (color + day) * fishes

In that case, the string "yellow" would be concatenated with the string "Monday" first, and then the whole thing would be multiplied by three. So instead of yellowMondayMondayMonday, you'd end up with yellowMondayyellowMondayyellowMonday.