---
layout: post
date: 2017-08-04 00:00
title: 파이썬과 말해봐요 - (변수) 이름을 붙여주세요
---

So far we've learned a bit about computer basics, and we've used Python to work with numbers and strings.

Now let's look at another way of working with data in Python - something called a variable.

{:.summary}
Calculate a value:
```python
>>> 12 * 12
 144
```
How can you save that value?
Give the value a name:
```python
>>> donuts = 12 * 12
>>> donuts
 144
```

Suppose you use a math expression to calculate a value. We've done this already. It's pretty simple, right?

Let's do the first one at the top. Type twelve times twelve and hit Enter. The value you get back should be ... one hundred and forty-four.

But what if you want to use that value again?

You could type twelve times twelve again, but if you're writing a program you might have to type that a lot.

Luckily Python gives us an easier way to do it. You can give your value a name, then you can use that name over and over again.

Take a look at our second example. Here we're using the name 'donuts' then saying that donuts is equal to twelve times twelve. We're ASSIGNING the value of twelve times twelve to the variable 'donuts'.

Go ahead and type the second example exactly as it's written here - donuts equals twelve times twelve - and hit Enter.

You shouldn't get any answer back - we haven't asked for one yet. But type the word donuts again and hit Enter. Do you see your value this time?

Go ahead and type and enter the word donuts a few times. You should always get the same answer back.

Notice that the words 'donuts' does not have any quotes around it. If it had quotes around it, Python would treat it like a string. Without quotes, Python knows that it's a variable.